---
layout: post
title: Nimble at Intugine Technologies
description: Motion Sensing Wearables
image: assets/images/nimble1.jpg
permalink: work/nimble
company_url: http://www.intugine.com/
---

**Intugine technologies** is a Bangalore based startup making gesture and voice-based wearables. I worked on 
**Nimble**, a motion sensing ring to control devices around you. It uses **BLE** (Bluetooth Low Energy) for connections.

I designed and developed the robust architecture of Nimble's Android application. It followed the *SOLID principles*,
*modularity* and *OOPS* concepts. I used MVP architectural pattern, dependency injection concept and design patterns such as observer, 
strategy, chain of responsibility pattern etc. It lead to a 30X increase in data transfer rate, allowing the voice-control feature to be built 
which required higher data transfer rates. The architecture design also lead to the solution of automatic reconnection of the ring and mobile app. 
It also provided a platform to give raw data streams and processed command streams to 3rd party developers, who can use them to develop solutions 
using Nimble.

I also implemented various motion sensing algorithms such as *'Long-press'*, *'Right-Left-Up-Down'* movement, *'Double tap'*, *'Roll - Reverse roll'* 
and *'Scroll'* movements. Further optimization of the developed algorithms lead to the accurate detection of movements with an accuracy rate of 
90%. I also developed ’Point and control’ and ’Custom gesture detection’ algorithms using raw data of various sensors. For maintaining code 
quality, I developed a Gradle task of static analysis tools such as Checkstyle, Lint, PMD and FindBugs. I also integrated Fabric's 
crashlytics and analytics solutions. 

Apart from Nimble, I developed various enterprise solutions using Android Sensor API, Java WebSockets and
NanoHttpd, MySQL, Node.js ,fused location API from Google play services etc.


